Project: Space-filling-curves

- **Context:** Locality preserving properties of space-filling curves have made space-filling curves a popular tool for partitioning multi-dimensional grids in parallelisation. The quality of partitions induced by space-filling curves on regular Cartesian grids has analytically been proven to be near optimal besides a constant. Comparatively, the explosion of partition opportunities available on adaptive grids has made the quality of adaptive grid partitions difficult to quantify. 
- **Aims:** The aim for this project is to assess the quality of partitions induced by the Hilbert curve on 2:1 balanced two-dimensional adaptive grids. By measuring surface-to-volume ratios of partitions on multitudes of adaptive grids in a brute-force manner, we aim to compare our results to partitions of optimal parallel efficiency, introduced by (Zumbusch, 2000) and derive meaningful estimates for the quality of partitions induced by the Hilbert curve on adaptive grids. 
- **Method:** Comprised of an infinite number of adaptive grids, we model the search space of the problem as a tree-like structure and propose a brute-force algorithm that measures the quality of partitions induced by the Hilbert curve through a breadth-first search. We compute the quality of partitions using surface-to-volume ratios and exploit properties of the Hilbert curve such as symmetry and recursion to reduce computation time.
- **Results:** The quality of partitions induced by space-filling curves on regular grids are of optimal parallel efficiency, with (Zumbusch, 2000) providing 7 as the constant part for the Hilbert curve. Our results infer that the average surface-to-volume ratios on adaptive grids are also quasi-optimal, with the constant part as low as 5.02 for the first three depth levels. We also find that the worst-case surface length s for volume v to be s = 3v+1. 
- **Conclusion:** The brute-force solution is able to compute the surface-to-volume ratios for all partitions induced by the Hilbert curve on 2:1 balanced adaptive grid structures on a depth level basis. Results from the first three depth levels suggest average surface-to-volume ratios of partitions on adaptive grids are quasi-optimal.

Example execution: `$ python ratios.py 3`
